Welcome to the tutorial. This will be a training for your first rescue mission. Whenever I finish talking, press the Space key to advance or press the Alt key if you want me to repeat./You have the mission to rescue a treasure lost at the bottom of the sea, but you can't do it on your own. You're the Engineer and in this tutorial, I'm going to be the Pilot. In real missions, you will need a partner in order to play./Together, we'll control a submarine. You'll be responsible for controlling the submarine's sonar and control panel. When you're ready, press the Space key, to begin the training.
Great, the submarine have just submerged. Don't worry, this is a tank suitable for these training sessions, there's no danger. I'll start by teaching you how to use the sonar. To do this, you must use the arrow keys to direct the sonar and the space key to send a pulse./For example, to send a pulse to the North you must press the up arrow key and, while holding it down, press the Space key. Try sending pulses in several directions!
That's it! I recommend that you send pulses frequently, so that you can detect minerals and dangers around the submarine. The sonar did not detect anything because the tank is empty./When the pulse collides with a wall, without detecting anything, you hear a low dry sound. This way you will also have information on the structure of the cave. On the other hand, if the pulse detects something relevant, it will return a high-pitched sound./Let's do a test. There's something to the southwest of the submarine. Try to send a pulse in that direction. Remember, direct the sonar with the arrow keys and send a pulse with the space key.
Amazing! As you could hear, the pulse you sent returned a high-pitched sound. This means that something has been detected./The distance between the submarine and the detected object is indicated by the time interval between the pulse sent and the pulse received. This way you will have information on how far away the objects are./To obtain information on what was detected and on its position, press the Control key. Try it now.
A coal ore! The ores you find on your mission are very important. When you detect an ore, you must immediately inform the pilot of its position so that you can collect it!/I am going towards Southwest, since the signal comes from that direction.
It's here, we found it! When playing with a partner, he will have to use the submarine's mechanical claw to collect it.
This sound you hear is the claw. I will now collect the ore. When I do, you will be notified.
Good job! Coal ores are essential to succeed. The submarine is powered by nuclear energy and the battery always starts at 100%. However, the energy will decrease gradually./You cannot let the battery run out or the mission will fail. This sound --- means that the sub has just lost 10% of its battery. The ocean is rich in coal ores, which can power the battery./To load the battery with the coal ore, you have to access the control panels. Navigation through the panels is easy. There are four different panels./To navigate between panels, use the 'A' key to navigate to the left and the 'D' key to navigate to the right. Use them to access the Battery panel, which should be the first.
Great! This panel informs you of the current battery percentage and indicates whether or not the submarine is in power saving mode. If the submarine is not in power saving mode, you must immediately notify the pilot./As you can see, the submarine is reduced to 90% battery. It's up to you to control the battery level, charging it whenever it's necessary./To navigate between the actions available on the panel, use the 'W' key to navigate up and the 'S' key to navigate down. To perform the actions, use the Enter key. Try to charge the battery with one coal ore.
Very well! Coal charged 10% of the battery. Whenever you detect a valuable ore, you must guide the pilot to collect it. On future missions, you'll find other ores that can be used to charge the battery./There are other ores that I must explain to you. I'm going to collect this quartz ore so you can use it.
Quartz ores are used to improve sonar range. This means that the pulses you send will travel a greater distance and you will be able to detect ores and hazards in advance./To improve the sonar range, you must access the Sonar panel and perform the action to improve the range. Remember, navigation is done using the 'W', 'A', 'S', 'D' keys and the action is triggered with the Enter key.
Good job! Now, I'm going to collect another ore. Remember that in future missions, the Pilot will collect these ores, but in this training mission we have easy access to them.
With an amber ore you can build a flare. Flares are fired by the pilot to illuminate the path. This makes the pilot's task much easier./To build a flare, you need to access the flares panel. This panel will tell you how many flares you have at the moment and will indicate whether or not the flare gun is loaded./Well, you already know what you have to do. Access the Flares panel, perform the action of building a flare and then the action of loading the flare gun with it.
Perfect! Whenever you want to know how many ores you have of each ore, you can click on the numbered keys, which will correspond to each ore: keys '1', '2' and '3' correspond to coal, quartz and amber./Now I'm going to collect these two coal ores, watch out.
These two coal ores, as you already know, could be used to charge the submarine's battery. However, this time we will use them in another way./With one coal ore you can build one torpedo. Torpedoes can be crucial in times of great distress. With a clear aim, the pilot can incapacitate the monsters that chase you and open secret passages./So, I will ask you to build two torpedoes with these two ores and load the top cannon with one and the bottom cannon with the other. To do this, access the Torpedoes panel and perform the corresponding actions.
Fantastic! This really comes in handy! Now listen - your sonar is picking up a strange sound hidden by a fragile rock. It must be a secret passage! I will approach and destroy it with a torpedo.
Great! Listen, the sound is getting closer and closer! It's the sound of dolphins playing. This is a good sign. Dolphins like shiny things. It's the treasure! I'm collecting it!
Fantastic, with the treasure in hand, we just have to go back up to the surface. But beware, we have to avoid the ocean monsters at all costs./Do you hear these grunts? This is certainly a ferocious monster! As soon as you hear these sounds, you should warn the pilot that a monster is nearby! You will also be able to send pulses to locate the monster./In future missions, you must ensure that the cannons are loaded so that the Pilot can protect the submarine. The monster will not die, but will be stunned. However, in this training, we are unable to escape the monster.
Your training has ended. In real missions, you'll have to work as a team to survive the dangers of the sea. You have to be aware of the submarine's battery, the ores that exist in the cave and the monsters that approach. Good luck!