Welcome to the tutorial. This will be a training for your first rescue mission. Whenever I finish talking, press the Space key to advance or press the Alt key if you want me to repeat./You and your partner have the mission to rescue a treasure lost at the bottom of the sea. Together you will control a submarine. You're the Engineer and your partner is the Pilot./You'll be responsible for controlling the submarine's sonar and control panel. When you're ready, press the Space key, to begin the training.
Great, the submarine have just submerged. Don't worry, this is a tank suitable for these training sessions, there's no danger. I'll start by teaching you how to use the sonar. To do this, you must use the arrow keys to direct the sonar and the space key to send a pulse./For example, to send a pulse to the North you must press the up arrow key and, while holding it down, press the Space key. Try sending pulses in several directions!
That's it! I recommend that you send pulses frequently, so that you can detect minerals and dangers around the submarine. The sonar did not detect anything because, for now, the tank is empty./When the pulse collides with a wall, without detecting anything, you hear a low dry sound. This way you will also have information on the structure of the cave. On the other hand, if the pulse detects something relevant, it will return a high-pitched sound./Let's do a test. There's something to the southwest of the submarine. Try to send a pulse in that direction. Remember, direct the sonar with the arrow keys and send a pulse with the space key.
Amazing! As you could hear, the pulse you sent returned a high-pitched sound. This means that something has been detected./The distance between the submarine and the detected object is indicated by the time interval between the pulse sent and the pulse received. This way you will have information on how far away the objects are./To obtain information on what was detected and on its position, press the Control key. Try it now.
A coal ore! The ores you find on your mission are very important. When you detect an ore, you must immediately inform the pilot of its position so that you can collect it!/I'm waiting for you to approach the coal ore. You can click the right mouse button again to hear the updated position of the detected object.
You found it! Now the pilot must catch it using the submarine's mechanical claw. I'm waiting for you to catch the coal.
This sound you hear is the claw. When the pilot collects the ore, you will be notified.
Good job! Coal ores are essential to succeed. The submarine is powered by nuclear energy and the battery always starts at 100%. However, the energy will decrease gradually./You cannot let the battery run out or the mission will fail. This sound --- means that the sub has just lost 10% of its battery. The ocean is rich in coal ores, which can power the battery./To load the battery with the coal ore, you have to access the control panels. Navigation through the panels is easy. There are four different panels./To navigate between panels, use the 'A' key to navigate to the left and the 'D' key to navigate to the right. Use them to access the Battery panel, which should be the first.
Great! This panel informs you of the current battery percentage and indicates whether or not the submarine is in power saving mode. If the submarine is not in power saving mode, you must immediately notify the pilot./As you can hear, the submarine is reduced to 90% battery. It's up to you to control the battery level, charging it whenever it's necessary./To navigate between the actions available on the panel, use the 'W' key to navigate up and the 'S' key to navigate down. To perform the actions, use the Enter key. Try to charge the battery with one coal ore.
Very well! Coal charged 10% of the battery. Whenever you detect a valuable ore, you must guide the pilot to collect it. On future missions, you'll find other ores that can be used to charge the battery./Now, another test. There's a different ore on one of the walls of the tank. Try to locate it together with the pilot and collect it. To do this, you must use the sonar.
Quartz ores are used to improve sonar range. This means that the pulses you send will travel a greater distance and you will be able to detect ores and hazards in advance./To improve the sonar range, you must access the Sonar panel and perform the action to improve the range. Remember, navigation is done using the 'W', 'A', 'S', 'D' keys and the action is triggered with the Enter key.
Good job! Now, there's another ore somewhere in the tank. Find it and collect it!
With an amber ore you can build a flare. Flares are fired by the pilot to illuminate the path. This makes the pilot's task much easier./To build a flare, you need to access the flares panel. This panel will tell you how many flares you have at the moment and will indicate whether or not the flare gun is loaded./Well, you already know what you have to do. Access the Flares panel and perform the action of building a flare. After you build it, you must perform the action of loading the flare gun with it.
Perfect! Whenever you want to know how many ores you have of each ore, you can click on the numbered keys, which will correspond to each ore: keys '1', '2' and '3' correspond to coal, quartz and amber./There are two more coal ores scattered around the tank. You have to collect them both. The pilot must use the flare to facilitate the task.
These two coal ores, as you already know, could be used to charge the submarine's battery. However, this time we will use them in another way./With one coal ore you can build one torpedo. Torpedoes can be crucial in times of great distress. With a clear aim, the pilot can incapacitate the monsters that chase you and open secret passages./So, I will ask you to build two torpedoes with these two ores and load the top cannon with one and the bottom cannon with the other. To do this, access the Torpedoes panel and perform the corresponding actions.
Fantastic! This really comes in handy! Your sonar is picking up a strange sound hidden by a broken rock. The pilot must destroy this rock with a torpedo and cross the passage.
The sound is getting closer and closer! It's the sound of dolphins playing. This is a good sign. Dolphins like shiny things. It's the treasure! Hurry, collect it and get back to the surface.
Do you hear these grunts? This is certainly a ferocious monster! Warn the pilot and immediately tell him to equip the cannons! In this tutorial there's no way to avoid it, but torpedoes can stun it.
Your training has ended. In real missions, you'll have to work as a team to survive the dangers of the sea. You have to be aware of the submarine's battery, the ores that exist in the cave and the monsters that approach. Good luck!