Welcome to the tutorial. This will be a training for your first rescue mission. Whenever I finish talking, press the Space key to advance or press the Alt key if you want me to repeat./You have the mission to rescue a treasure lost at the bottom of the sea, but you can't do it on your own. You're the Pilot and in this tutorial, I'm going to be the Engineer. In real missions, you will need a partner in order to play./Together, we'll control a submarine. You'll be responsible for driving the submarine and using various items. When you're ready, press the Space key, to begin the training.
Great, the submarine have just submerged. Don't worry, this is a tank suitable for these training sessions, there's no danger. I'll start by teaching you how to drive./To drive you must use the arrow keys or the keys 'W', 'A', 'S' and 'D'. I'll ask you to guide the submarine to a certain location. Head south and I'll be back to you.
As you can see, the ocean is dark and scary. You'll have to get used to it. The submarine is equipped with powerful headlights, which will give you some visibility, but it will not be enough./That's why it's very important that you pay attention to your partner's guidance. Your partner will use the sonar to find valuable objects and potential threats.
In all missions, the treasure is lost at the bottom of the cave, so it's important that you direct the submarine south. However, you should do it cautiously./You must avoid the monsters that inhabit the ocean, taking the safer paths. You will only be able to do this with the guidance of your partner.
It's very important that you collect the various ores that exist on the walls of the caves, to ensure your survival./I'm detecting something with the sonar. It's a coal ore! I'll give you visual cues, follow them.
We've found it! Notice that the ores have luminescence - they shine when you approach them. To catch it you have to use the submarine's mechanical claw. Activate the Collect mode by pressing the Number 1 key.
Great! You should now use your computer mouse. Place the cursor over the ore and keep the left mouse button pressed until the claw reaches the ore. Then release the button and you will collect the ore.
Good job! Coal ores are essential to succeed. The submarine is powered by nuclear energy and the battery always starts at 100%. However, the energy will decrease gradually./You cannot let the battery run out or the mission will fail. This sound --- means that the sub has just lost 10% of its battery. The ocean is rich in coal ores, which can power the battery./So that the battery does not run out so quickly, you must ensure that the sub is in Power Saving mode. To activate the Power Saving mode, press the Number 4 key.
In this mode, you cannot control the mechanical claw and the other tools you will learn to use in this tutorial. But if you're not using them, you must ensure battery saving./The Engineer is responsible for charging the battery. You should alert the Engineer if you notice that the submarine's headlights are losing power. When the submarine loses battery, the headlights lose power.
I just charged 10% of the battery with the coal you collected. On future missions you'll find other ores that can be used to charge the battery./Now, another test. I'm detecting another ore on one of the walls of the tank. Follow my directions and collect the ore.
Quartz ores are used to improve sonar range. This means that the engineer will be able to detect ores and hazards in advance.
I'm detecting another ore. Again, follow my directions and collect it.
With an amber ore the engineer can build a flare. Flares are fired by you to light the way. This can make your task a lot easier./Flares can be a relief when you don't know where to go or when you are being chased by a monster and you don't know where it is./To fire a flare you must activate the mode Flare Gun by pressing the Number 2 key. Activate this mode now.
Great! I just loaded a flare to the flare gun. When you want to fire it, just point with the cursor and press the left mouse button./Below are two other coal ores that you must pick up. The flare can help you with this task.
These two coal ores, as you already know, could be used to charge the submarine's battery. However, this time we'll use them in another way./With a coal ore the engineer can build a torpedo. Torpedoes can be crucial in times of great distress. With a clear aim, you can incapacitate the monsters that chase you and open secret passages./The submarine is equipped with two cannons. The top cannon only fires upwards and the bottom cannon only fires downwards. Activate the Shooting mode by pressing the Number 3 key.
Fantastic! This really comes in handy! There is a secret passage blocked by a fragile rock near you. I've loaded your cannons. Aim at the rock and shoot using the left mouse button. I will wait for you to cross the passage.
You're approaching the treasure! I'm detecting it. Hurry, use the mechanical claw to collect it and return to the surface.
Sonar is detecting something. Careful. It's a large body in movement. Go with caution and, if needed, fire the torpedoes.
Your training has ended. In real missions you'll have to work as a team to survive the dangers of the sea. You have to be aware of the submarine's battery, the ores that exist in the cave and the monsters that approach. Good luck!